[MetaindeX - Tuto 1]
*** 10 minutes basics and overview ***
In this tutorial, we'll see how to inject data from Excel,
we'll customize main catalog's options,
and at last, we'll rapidly demonstrate the statistics functionality (based and Kibana tool).
Our input data is made of an Excel file (.ods format)
and a set of pictures corresponding to our entries.
first column is a unique identifier
then various contents listed
*** be sure dates are of type 'text' ***
otherwise they won't be imported properly
'portrait' field contains the name of a picture
we'll upload corresponding files into the drive
the last field is a reference to another entry
this allows to define relationship between elements
and study networks with tool 'Gephi' (see dedicated demo)
Let's login now to MetaindeX
I'll set language to english and choose blue skin
Because blue is nice
we create now a catalog to store our data
Woops ... only very basic characters are allow here
This name is an ID. We can later choose a fancy human name to display
The main panel allows to configure the catalog.
Each tab has a help explaining what and how
We'll customize a bit our lexic
We enter into the catalog now
We could create items by hand
but we'll better upload our Excel file for the demo
Just drag and drop the file
We select the fields to actually import
Since catalog is brand new, we have to create new fields
Next time we import the file, that will be automatically matched
Each entry is represented with a card
We can open one and see/edit contents
The picture is missing, because we haven't uploaded it yet
let's upload the picture files
they will be stored in a drive dedicated to our catalog
we can now refresh the page
and the picture is there, cool.
we can switch to edit mode and modif some contents
let's customize a bit the way cards are displayed
with custom cards title based on some fields we choose
and thumbnail image
et voilà !
looks better no?
let's do some basic search queries
we can save our search as a 'filter' and reuse it later
we'll now create a simple statistics chart
using integrated Kibana tool
first we need to tell Kibana to use 'birthdate' field for the time-line.
Kibala is part of open-source ElasticStack suite.
MetaindeX uses it to get very powerful and scalable data management.
just use same login/pwd
we'll show a very trivial example here,
but many things can be done with it
we refine the time period we're interested in
Kibana default time window starts 15min ago, that's no good for us,
we want it to start before the oldest birthdate, to include all our artists.
hum I feel like creating a Pie chart for the demo (i'm hungry)
we'll visualize repartition of artists by type
this is a trivial example, see our dedicated tuto
for more precisions on how to use Kibana